Game Design Concept and Pitch Template

Working title:
    Your game’s title should communicate the gameplay and the style of the game
    
Concept statement:
    The game in a tweet: one or two sentences at most that say what the game is and why it’s fun.

Genre(s):
    Single genre is clearer but often less interesting. Genre combinations can be risky. Beware of ‘tired’ genres.

Target audience:
    Motivations and relevant interests; potentially age, gender, etc.; and the desired ESRB rating for the game.
Unique Selling Points:
    Critically important. What makes your game stand out? How is it different from all other games?

Player Experience and Game POV:
    Who is the player? What is the setting? What is the fantasy the game grants the player? What emotions do
    you want the player to feel? What keeps the player engaged for the duration of their play?

Visual and Audio Style:
    What is the “look and feel” of the game? How does this support the desired player’s experience? What
    concept art or reference art can you show to give the feel of the game?

Game World Fiction:
    Briefly describe the game world and any narrative in player-relevant terms (as presented to the player).

Monetization:
    How will the game make money? Premium purchase? F2P? How do you justify this within the design?

Platform(s), Technology, and Scope (brief):
    PC or mobile? Table or phone? 2D or 3D? Unity or Javascript? How long to make, and how big a team?
    How long to first-playable? How long to complete the game? Major risks?

Core Loops:
How do game objects and the player’s actions form loops? Why is this
    engaging? How does this support player goals? What emergent results do
    you expect/hope to see? If F2P, where are the monetization points?

Objectives and Progression:
How does the player move through the game, literally and figuratively,
    from tutorial to end? What are their short-term and long-term goals
    (explicit or implicit)? How do these support the game concept, style, and
    player-fantasy?

Game Systems:
    What systems are needed to make this game? Which ones are internal
    (simulation, etc.) and which does the player interact with?

Interactivity:
How are different kinds of interactivity used? (Action/Feedback, ST Cog,
    LT Cog, Emotional, Social, Cultural) What is the player doing
    moment-by-moment? How does the player move through the world? How does
    physics/combat/etc. work? A clear, professional-looking sketch of the
    primary game UX is helpful.
    